An introduction to the book of Nehemiah.
Nehemiah was a faithful Jewish man
who served
in the royal Persian court of Shushan.
He had the high-ranking position
of cupbearer to King Artaxerxes.
Sometime after 443 B.C.E.,
the book of Nehemiah
was written in Jerusalem.
It begins by describing events that happened
about 12 years after those in Ezra’s account.
The book contains 13 chapters
that cover events that began in 456 B.C.E.
to sometime after 443 B.C.E.
However, the first 12 chapters
focus on what took place
just within the first year.
The events in chapters 1 and 2
began to take place
near the end of 456 B.C.E.
Men from Jerusalem told Nehemiah
about the deplorable condition
of the city’s walls and gates.
Nehemiah prayed to God for direction.
In answer to Nehemiah’s prayer,
the Persian king
sent him to Jerusalem as governor
and granted him permission
to rebuild the walls.
Upon arrival, Nehemiah
inspected the city walls.
He then gathered the people
and announced his mission with the words:
“Let us rebuild the walls of Jerusalem.”
The mission to rebuild Jerusalem
marked the beginning
of the 70 weeks of years
mentioned in Daniel’s prophecy.
At the end of 69 weeks of years,
the Messiah would appear.
Chapters 3 to 6
recount the rebuilding
of Jerusalem’s walls and gates
despite enemy opposition.
Did you know?
A large workforce of men and women
repaired Jerusalem’s walls in just 52 days!
Chapters 7 to 12
show how Nehemiah and Ezra
took the lead in helping the people
return to true worship.
The people gathered to hear
the law being read and explained.
Next, the eight-day
Festival of Booths was held.
After this,
the walls of Jerusalem were inaugurated.
Nehemiah continued
as governor of Jerusalem for 12 years
before returning to his duties
under King Artaxerxes.
Chapter 13 tells us that Nehemiah
traveled to Jerusalem a second time,
only to find that the Jews
had not kept their promises to Jehovah.
He then took decisive action
to correct the situation.
As you read this stirring account,
notice how Jehovah used
a Persian king to accomplish His will.
Observe how Nehemiah’s zeal for
and knowledge of God’s Law led to blessings,
and note how the rebuilding
of Jerusalem’s walls
became a key to understanding
an important prophecy in Daniel
that pointed
to the appearance of the Messiah.